Spell Checking

The English spelling checker (under Scripts in the Links) uses Vim's
highlighting ability to make misspelled (English) words show up as "Error"
(usually white on a red background). The Vim-based English spell checker
also supports entering words that the cursor is on into a temporary or
permanent dictionary and allows one to skip to the previous or subsequent
spelling error (if any). It co-exists quite well with TeX, LaTeX, and
other such variants, too!

Getting Started: To enable english spell checking, put the following
line in your <.vimrc>:

map <F3> :so $CVIMSYN/engspchk.vim

where CVIMSYN is an environment variable pointing to wherever you have
<engspchk.vim> installed. Note that hitting the function key F3 will
then invoke the English spelling checker by sourcing it in! Feel free to
change that function key name to whatever you find appropriate. For PCs,
note that to set up the CVIMSYN environment variable you'll be putting
"set CVIMSYN=..path.." into your <autoexec.bat>. For NT or Win2000
systems, environment variables are entered under the <Advanced> tab of
<System Properties>, which in turn you can get to by right clicking on
<My Computer> and choosing <Properties>.

Moving: For Vim versions 5.04 and later, the <engspchk.vim> file also
provides two maps (\en and \ep) to move to the next and preceding
spelling error, if any. I suggest you upgrade if you haven't already,
because Vim's functions are powerful!

Custom Dictionary: Engspchk allows the user to temporarily (\et) or to
permanently (\es) save their own words. A temporary save only affects
the current vim editing session; a permanent save writes the word to a
custom user dictionary.

Alternatives: For Vim version 6.0 and later, <engspchk.vim> provides the
(\ea) map which brings up a one-line alternatives window for the word
under the cursor. Move left and right with the full power of Vim, and when
the cursor lies on the desired substitute word, a simple carriage return
will cause replacement. You'll also need to have the agrep program to do
this (there's a pre-compiled for Windows version available using this
link). The first use of (\ea) takes longer than subsequent use because
the script that gets invoked constructs a plain list of words from the
engspchk file.

No Flashing: With Vim version 6.0y and later and version 2.04 of
engspchk no longer will Error highlighting flash on and off while you're
typing. Thanks go to Chase Tingley (with emendations by Bram Moolenaar)
who wrote the changes to Vim to make this possible.

More Words: If you download "More Words" from the Links section you will
get a file of additional words based on Webster's 1913 dictionary. Only
those words not already in engspchk itself appear in that file. If the
file wb1913_engspchk.vim is present in the same directory as the regular
<engspchk.vim>, it will be automatically detected and loaded.

Other Languages: There are now variants of <engspchk.vim> for German,
Hungarian, and Yiddish. If your native language isn't supported, feel
free to make your own variant! I'd appreciate it if you could let me know
where on the Web to find it so I can make a link on this page to it.
Thomas Köhler has made his create script which uses the Bourne shell
available; it merges a dictionary with engspchk.vim to create a spelling
checker for another language.
